---
title: Chasing the Chicken
layout: chapter

story: cock-a-doodle-doom # references the story
number: 20 # ordering index
version: 0 # public revision number

categories: cock-a-doodle-doom 20 # defines the permalink
---
We aren't done being creeped out by the meat chute making noises, still the bell rings. Today I wouldn't go to the catering for a million dollars: who says they wouldn't eat me alive?

Dave said they probably weren't conscious when they attacked us, which can be reassuring under a certain light. They probably won't recognize me, but I have no way to say when they're gonna attack next. If it wasn't for Domenica's job and Nathan's friends at school, I'd be tempted to get away as fast as I can too.

As we drop our stuff in the locker, I hear footsteps in front of the building, lots of them. I look at Dave: he seems to be just as freaked out as I do. Is now the time where they chop us into nuggets? Feeling stupidly brave, I venture outside.

They seem to have come crawling from every part of the factory: a dozen or more workers, staring at us like we're about to start a show. Not that Dave has pointed it out, yes, they're clearly out of their minds, I mean *not in control*. Their standing bodies are positioned in ways that, without being entirely unnatural, make them look like puppets with literal strings. It's not incredibly obvious, just small things: a hand hanging loose here and there, an asymmetrical slouch, some guy staring at us directly but with his face turned towards his shoulder. All in all, this makes for a pretty creepy scene and the only thing I can think of is 'Should I run right now?'.

Because yes, that's the question. They seem to be waiting for something, given the extra time I've had to mill all of this in my head. Did the come commanded by a higher entity? Do they know I am affiliated with the girl they wanted scared, or is it Dave that they came to confront because he says he wants to leave the factory?

I'm ready to call them out on that question, but Dave grabs me by the arm and pulls me away. They keep staring, but don't give chase. I'll let the veteran ghost-tamer lead the way for now. He always gets so edgy when the factory puppets are involved.

“I could have *talked* to them,” I say. “How are you so sure they wouldn't have reacted?”

Dave lets go of my arm. “No, Deb, I'm afraid they would have. I've seen people in that kind of state before. You don't want to piss them off.”

I think back on yesterday's attack. I might have to agree with him on that one. “So, do you think they heard us?” I say.

“I don't think they have that kind of awareness right now. The entity that controls them, well, let's imagine they're his fingers. It can't be focused all the time on what they're feeling. Plus, it's likely new feelings for it. Maybe it can react when they're injured, stressed or bored, but I'd say understanding human speech is on another level entirely. Anyway, whether it can understand us or not, I think we're screwed now.”

I turn around, but there's no one here. The weather is turning stormy again, which is no surprise. Is that thunder I hear? Great. We're almost at the entrance of the factory, nobody has followed us as far as I can see.

“What do you mean, we're screwed? Aren't we just going out for lunch?”

“Mm-mm,” says Dave, shaking his head. “I'm not going back there.”

“Just because they've crowded us?” I say. “Isn't that a bit of an overreaction?”

Dave stops at the fence and scratches his head. “See, I don't know for sure *why* they were there waiting for us, but the only thing that makes sense gives me chills. I think they finally noticed that we're special. I don't like the idea of being thought of as a bump in the road by a potentially very powerful entity.”

“Again with that special talk,” I say. “I'm sorry, Dave, I don't know about you, but I have no magical power whatsoever. No one gave me my Hogwarts letter and I sure as hell haven't been bitten by a radioactive spider, OK?”

“Well,” says Dave, “the fact that you're here with *me* and not with them says a lot about your abilities. Do you know that for the time I've worked here, you're the only coworker who made it out without being controlled? At first there were a few others, but very soon they were all gone doing strange stuff, looking like they were sleep-walking. *You* stayed impervious to that control, just like I did. Just like I always do. The supernatural doesn't seem to have a sway over me and I'm pretty sure the same could be said about you.”

He lets me mull on this while I go fetch my bike. True, I didn't go crazy while I was in the factory. You know who else didn't? Old Dave and no one else. Unless we're the crazy ones? The last days have been world-changing enough that I'm not so sure anymore. Maybe *I've* gone bonkers and everyone else is fine. Maybe I can worry about that later. I get the bike out of the bush. A little scratched up, but it should be fine.

“You said they *made* us, like they picked on the fact that we couldn't be controlled?” I say.

“That's my best guess,” says Dave. “And that's why I think today is a good time to leave. I'll just get my car ready, pack a few bags and bam! Time for new adventures. What are *you* gonna do?”

“I have no idea,” I say. “I have people to warn that things are turning bad, but I don't even know if they're gonna believe me. *I* wouldn't believe me. Do you think the whole town could be affected, or are we safe if we don't go near the factory?”

“Well, I'm not staying to make sure,” says Dave. “As things are right now, I can only say that they seem to be gaining momentum.”

As if to prove his point, thunder strikes somewhere near. The storm is over us now, and the air is thick with the smell of rain. I have to get going before it becomes impossible to ride my bike home. Time to decide.

“I want out too,” I say. “I have friends I need to convince, but could we meet after that this evening? Just to run the situation by you and Domenica one last time, then you'd be on your way. I'd feel a lot safer organizing the departure with two people who seem to know what's going on.”

“Alright,” says Dave, “but after this evening, I'm gone.”

While the weather still hesitates to lunge at us, he goes to fetch his car, left at the fries shack just in case some of our zombified coworkers left like sabotaging it. I leave on my bike with a promise to meet up at eight p.m.. at Domenica's house. I didn't mention her or Nathan *exactly* but I'm hoping he will have space for two in his car. Will they even follow me? I have to hope Nathan's safety will be enough to convince her.

For a moment I'm in a blur. Things have happened so fast I still feel like I'm reacting automatically. There has been no time to think things over, whether we're talking about worldviews, relationships, directions in life… It's like riding this bike is a metaphor for me going very fast somewhere random. What am I doing?

The curves of the road and tricky climbs get my mind back on track. No matter how much I should pause and think, this is not the time to do that. We'll collectively lose it with Domenica and figure out what to do. Funny that I can't imagine doing this without her now.

The rain starts but most of it is falling on the factory, under a great black spiraling cloud. Yeah, I'm getting the fuck out of here. How are things like this even allowed to exist? A week ago I was living in a boring world made of unemployment and vague loneliness, now I have to worry about super-powered shits controlling people and the weather like they're trying to build their own ice kingdom. This - is - crazy, and I don't have the stamina to thin about it anymore. Hey, I didn't eat lunch yet, and the morning shift has been pretty eventful.

Now that I think about it, is Domenica even home during the day? I hope she does all her work at home, because I'm close to it now and I'm not cycling across town another time today.

I leave the bike outside and knock. Domenica only answers after a moment. I suspect she checked the window first: no one wants a repeat of yesterday's attack. She opens, worried, but calms down when I beam at her.

“Hey beautiful,” I say, “I got some new information to share.”

Domenica seems puzzled, hesitant. “Good news? Are you OK?”

Oh, yeah, she sent me to my doom this morning and I promised I'd be careful and come back tonight. She must be happy and spooked at the same time. “I'm fine,” I say. “No one ate me or followed me back here. I actually found out that Dave is not the one that sold you out, he's an ally. That's pretty good news. Still, …” It might be a good idea to leave town while we can. Shit. I didn't think at all about how I would break it down to her. 'It's pretty simple, there's evil brewing in town and I think we're all in danger, so please give up your job, your hometown, have Nathan say goodbye to his friends and let's drive towards who knows where in a complete stranger's car!' Hmm.

“Domenica?” I say. “I think we should sit down and talk.”
